All right.
It feels like it's never going to end.
We have so many methods with less but like I said lists have a lot of methods because you can do a lot
with them.
It seems like a lot right now but trust me these are going to become second nature.
So hang in there.
I have a few more to show you the next one is called sort guess what sort is going to do if I click
Run I get none.
But remember sort sorts the list as you can imagine in place that means and modifies the list.
So if I remove this up to here and then do a sort or do basket and I click Run look at that I get a
sorted list where a D was moved in front of me.
If I add let's say x at the beginning here and I click run it's going to move the X all the way to the
end.
It's going to sort the list in place for me again if I hover over it sees that it's going to not return
anything which is why our print initially didn't work we had to print our basket not whatever this produces
which doesn't produce anything.
But what about this one if we go to built in functions I have something called sorted and if I do sorted
and because it's a function not a method I can do sorted dot or basket.
So around the brackets is just like print if I run this.
All right.
Nothing has changed but what if I remove this and put it in here if I click Run I get a b c d d e x.
What if I comment this out so that we're not sorting it anymore we just have the basket and then we
run this sorted function.
If I run did you see that sorted.
I know it's confusing why do they even have to but sorted produces a new array so if I do print basket
here and I click Run the basket hasn't been modified the basket still remains the same.
It's this one over here that's not sorted sorted.
On the other hand doesn't modify the basket in place.
Instead it creates a new copy of the basket and sorts it.
It's almost as if we're doing this.
We're saying new basket equals basket and then we're going to copy that basket.
Remember list slicing and then we're performing new basket dot sort on this new list so that if I do
new basket and I click Run we get the same thing so you have to be careful of certain actions that perform
an action in place or create a completely new list to begin with.
By the way there's also instead of this a dot copy method that we can use and if I run this again we
get the same thing copy just as the name suggests copy the list for us and returns for us a new list.
All right.
One last one and that is basket dot reverse.
What do you think this does.
Based on the name well if I check out the basket here and click Run is that what you expected.
It reverses the basket in place but notice that it's not like sort it's not sorting it's simply switching
all the indexes into opposite sides.
So D is now index of 0 E is now index of one index of 2 3.
So on and so forth.
So you can see here that it doesn't actually sort it.
Instead while we might want to do is sort first then reverse and if we click Run we have a sorted reversed
basket.
This is a little tricky one that some interviewers might ask.
All right.
Good job getting this far.
We're almost done with lists.
So I'll see you in the next video by.